[Music]
orca are the largest of the dolphins
and like all dolphins they have a lot of
distinct parts
their day so sometimes they'll be
traveling sometimes they'll be feeding
sometimes they're just plain playing
like now
unbelievable that's incredible this is
called breaching
it's supposed to actually remove
parasites from the skins of the the orca
but when you look at something like that
you've got to say they are just
playing i mean if you could do that you
would wouldn't you
orca need to spend a good deal of their
day interacting with the others in their
group
they have such big brains that really
they just need time to get to know each
other
and just to muck around this has already
been
just about the most exciting two minutes
of my life
look at that they are magnificent
i don't want to chase them it's very
important that i don't go into their
space i let them come into mine
but they don't seem to be bothered by us
oh my goodness
it just breached right in front of me
wow look at that
this is the wildlife spectacle of this
part of the world
rarely for my crew they're almost
speechless
apart from johnny on the main camera
it's amazing man
really is they're very close to him how
close
are they 10 15 meters something like
that
should he be scared at this point steve
every one of these orca could weigh as
much as a small
truck but they're incredibly
maneuverable
very very fast killer whales are
probably the fastest mammal
in the seas and certainly for long
distances they can travel enormous
distances and day
i don't believe what i'm seeing here
look at this they're just coming
together right in front of me
they call orca the wolves of the sea not
just because they're incredible teeth
but also because they hunt
cooperatively together in groups and i
think that's what's happening around me
now look
i think now i've probably got about 15
animals
all very very close
[Music]
it's not just adults here there are
plenty of young carbs in amongst them
oh it frightens the life out of you when
they come to the surface like that
it's like an explosion of air and water
out of their blow hole
he's coming right underneath me i can
see he's right underneath my boat
that's he's about three meters away from
me just looking up at me just turned on
his side
i just looked straight in my eye
oh wow
he just it just popped up right
alongside me
i think they've just really want to find
out what this strange
plastic yellow boat in their world is
i'm seeing firsthand
how intelligent they are
the abundance of krill attracts other
visitors to the peninsula
in the summer antarctic
minky whales their pointed heads
and short dorsal fins give them speed
and endurance
and they need both
there are other whales here too
killers
this is an extended family of mothers
and their young
and a male with a huge dorsal fin
two meters high
[Music]
alone minky whale
it's just what this group of killer
whales are looking for
working as a team as they have done for
decades
they fan out across the street in search
of their quarry
and they found it the minky races away
pursued by outriders on each flank
[Music]
terrified the minky heads for the shore
it's so desperate to escape it almost
beaches itself
it makes a desperate break for freedom
[Music]
[Applause]
two hours and 20 miles later the minke
is still alive and swimming strongly
its only real defense is its endurance
but the killers work as a team with
fresh ones replacing the outriders in
relays
and as the minky towers the battering
and the biting
[Music]
[Applause]
begins
sea birds are attracted by the smell of
fresh blood
rising from the water
[Music]
the killers try to flip the minke over
if they can manage to keep its blowhole
underwater it will drown
one forces the mickey's whole body down
below the surface
and then the final strike
the team dragged the minke under for the
last time
and the hunters finally can feed
[Music]
for sea lions to venture into deep water
here is very dangerous indeed
it's much safer to stay in the shallows
if they can
in one or two places channels enable the
whales to get really close to the beach
those are the danger spots
[Music]
to get off the beach the killer has to
thrash its body
no other whale deliberately beaches
itself in this way
or has perfected this method of getting
back to the sea
as long as the sea lions stay well up
the beach you might think they would be
safe
but the hungry whales are very daring
now several of the whales are hunting in
a group
that sea lion was keeping just ahead of
one of the whales
but was caught by another it probably
hadn't seen
this savage beating may be to separate
hide from flesh
[Music]
not much remains of the porpoise after
the whales are through with it
killer whales don't just target prey
smaller than themselves
off the coast of california a gray whale
and her baby
are in serious danger
once again computer images give the
underwater view
of an extraordinary hunt
the gray whale calf is just a few weeks
old
it's following its mother north towards
the summer feeding grounds
in alaska they've reached monterey bay
where a deep trench cuts in from the sea
as they move beyond the trench wall the
grey whales
lose their cover
[Music]
out in the bay the killer whales are
listening for that telltale sound
the breathing of a great whale
immediately their behavior changes the
killers close ranks
like a hunting wolf pack
the killer whales have caught up with
the mother and calf
and now the chase is on
the grey whales try to outswim their
attackers
fast swimming pushes up the grey whale's
breathing rate
a breathless calf is easier to catch
[Music]
the killers work as a team their first
goal
is to separate the baby from its mother
[Music]
the gray whale mother is a formidable
adversary
she could seriously harm a killer whale
with just one slap of her massive tail
fruit
one of the attackers pushes between
mother and calf
[Music]
the strategy is working the grey whales
are forced apart
with the baby separated the killer
whales change
strategy now their goal is to drown
the cuff
a six-ton orca slaps its tail with
awesome destructive power
under the water tail slabs are used to
stun the herring
some fish come too quickly and escape
back to the safety of the shoal
but most are picked off by the orcas one
by one
soon water glitters with fish scales as
the orcas methodically consume the ball
of fish
by breaking up the herring into a
smaller show the orcas have done the
humpbacks of favor
turning the usual relationship between
the animals on its head
[Music]
everywhere else on earth orcas are the
humpback's biggest enemy
but here the humpbacks cash in on the
colossal fish supper
[Music]
and the humpbacks aren't the only ones
to get crashed the orca's party
massive fin whales can swallow 3 000
herring in a single gulp
[Music]
deadly enemies feed side by side
a unique scene only possible here
because of the warmth
of the gulf stream
[Music]
[Applause]
you